Okay, welcome back to Gary's Economics.
Today we are going to ask the question,
can labor be saved?
Okay, so this is the first ever part two
of a of a two-part video this week. Um,
so last week we discussed the question
of whether Labor have been unlucky and
whether global center-left political
parties have been unlucky and that is
why they were very unpopular. And the
conclusion that I came to is they're not
unlucky in the way that they like to say
they are. They like to say they have
inherited bad economies from the right,
from the center right. Um and that's
nothing to do with them. Uh in reality,
the the weakening economies were
predictable long before Labour came into
power. Um I've been predicting them for
5 years. Um, I tried my best to let
Labour know before they came into power
that there was going to be big problems
of government spending, government
funding, big problems of inequality and
they ignored it. So they are not unlucky
in the sense that the economic problems
were unpredictable. But where they are
unlucky is that the economic problems
that Labor are facing and the UK economy
is facing is not at all unique. Um this
problem of weakening economy, falling
living standards has basically been
experienced by every government in the
UK for the last 15 years. Um it brought
down Rishi Sunnak for the same reason
that it will that is bringing down Kama.
It will bring down Nigel Farage if and
when he comes into power. The same thing
is happening to Donald Trump in America.
The same thing is happening to the
German government, the the French
government, the Spanish government, the
Italian government, even the Japanese
government, the Australian government.
uh this is happening to governments all
over the world. It's not a labor
specific problem. And what this is
really is more of a broad intellectual
failing where our economists and our
politicians are simply unable to
recognize that we have a structural
growing problem of growing wealth
inequality and that is the cause of the
economic crisis. Okay. So once we accept
that that what we have is is a broad
intellectual failing that raises the
question of of what do we do? Uh we're
in a situation here where inequality
continues to rise. That means that
living standards will continue to fall.
It's important that we recognize that
that is like really really serious. Uh
that means people not being able to heat
their homes, feed their kids, buy
houses, have families, have financial
security. Uh it's it's going to be
really really serious here and across
the world. So we need to ask ourselves
what can we do? How can we get
governments to change policy to stop
inequality from rising which basically
means policy on taxation, wealth taxes?
And here in this country, and I think in
most countries, you basically have two
choices. Assuming you don't get anything
on inequality and taxation from the
right and the center right which I think
is probably true you have to either
build a new political party or try and
influence your center left parties here
in this country under our first pass to
post political system which I think is a
bit of a stupid system. It is very very
difficult to displace political parties.
So we need to figure out can we save
Labor. So that raises the big two
questions of this video. Why have Labour
failed to recognize inequality as the
core central message and can they be
saved? Okay, so you know I speak about
why they failed a lot. I spoke about it
a lot in last week's video. Um this is a
misdiagnosis of an economic problem.
Economists don't look at inequality a
lot. We have a crisis of falling living
standards being caused by growing
inequality and economists are missing it
and that's causing political parties
including Labor to miss it. why that is
happening. I think to be honest, I'm not
100% sure. I've got a lot of theories
and we're going to run through them.
It's important that we understand why
these guys are missing it if we want to
move into a more sensible position. A
big part of this, in my opinion, is
coming from problems in the academic
discipline of economics. So, economics
in the way that it is understood and
taught at universities. Um, I've spoken
about this in some past videos. Maybe
we'll flash a link up to why economists
are always wrong, which is a cool video.
Me walking around Oxford years ago when
we used to do things like that. When you
study economics at university nowadays,
it is a very complicated and difficult
and extremely mathematical subject. Um,
you spend an enormous amount of time
doing complicated algebra, complicated
calculus. If you take it to postgrad or
PhD or posttock level, you are going to
spend 10 years doing complicated
calculus and algebra on very very
mathematically complicated models almost
all of which contain no inequality. Um
this is a very very effective way of
training economists not to think about
the economy in terms of inequality. If
you have spent 10 years locked in stuffy
windowless university library rooms
doing simultaneous equations and
complicated algebra and calculus when
you see a real world economic problem
you are going to have a very strong
temptation to try to apply the things
you learned and the things you studied
at university. If you spent 10 years
studying very very complicated
mathematical models that include no
inequality, you are very very unlikely
to look at an economic problem and think
maybe this is being caused by
inequality. I think there's also a a
kind of hot house very competitive
culture within economics specifically
although I do think it's happening in a
lot of academic disciplines which really
really aggressively rewards students for
studying and writing papers on kind of
fashionable ideas and not really
stepping outside the box and writing
about things which are unfashionable
like inequality. You know a good example
of this is Hun Chang who is um a Korean
economics professor who I think is
really smart guy, really thoughtful.
I've got a lot of time from him. We had
him on the channel earlier this year. He
writes a lot of great books about things
like how Korea went from being poor to
being rich. He has a lot of things to
say about how countries can improve
living standards. And yet because he
does not talk and write in the way which
is approved within economics despite the
fact that he is the bestselling
economics author in the entire country,
he is largely shunned and ignored within
economics. Another great example is
Thomas Petti, French economist who had a
very prestigious, illustrious,
successful economics career who decided
in 2011, I'm going to start talking
about inequality probably because he was
smart enough to recognize what a big
deal it was and since then has been kind
of criticized, attacked, shunned and
sidelined a lot within the economics
community. So within economics as a
whole you have a discipline which is not
able really to look or or think in terms
of inequality and tends to punish people
who think outside the box who are
willing to think in in different terms.
I think co is a great example of this.
We had the crisis which from the very
beginning it should have been obvious
was going to cause a massive increase in
inequality and yet basically nobody in
academia in the think tanks the central
banks which are kind of extensions of
academia was ever able or willing to
think about it in terms of inequality in
terms of uh distribution. You then have
the additional factor that specifically
within economics, you have this other
optional career path which aggressively
rewards people who think outside the box
and challenge conventional wisdom which
is trading. So I have studied at the L
School of Economics and at Oxford. Um, I
can tell you with a very high level of
of confidence, the vast majority of
economics undergrads really really want
to work in finance jobs like trading or
perhaps other jobs nowadays like tech or
AI. They're not trying to get into
government, but they know that in
trading trading is quite interesting in
that it really really heavily rewards
people who turn around and say,
"Everyone around me is wrong as long as
you get proved to be right." Um, when I
was a trader, I was a very heavily
counter trend trader. So, I like to
really bet aggressively on things that
everybody thought was wrong. And if you
do that, you get paid a lot of money.
So, you have one side of economics,
which is the kind of public facing side,
which is the universities, the
governments, the think tanks, which
really really punishes people for
stepping outside the sort of accept all
box and saying, "I think everybody is
wrong. I think something different." And
then you have another much better paid
side of economics which really really
aggressively awards people who do that.
So obviously if you are the kind of
person who wants to challenge
conventional wisdom in economics,
there are very very strong reasons why
you might try and go into finance and
trading rather than economics. But even
if we accept this that economics as a
discipline kind of slightly brainwashes
its students into not really breaking
the rules and then really pushes the
students who are a little bit more
inventive in their thinking out of
academia and into trading. We're now in
a situation where in the last 17 years
living standards have been falling quite
consistently. Existing political parties
have been losing again and again.
They've been consistently failing on the
economy. The far right is growing all
across the world. There's this outrage
against popular economists, popular
politicians, against the status quo.
It's like really obvious that that the
status quo is failing. We have in the
Labour party a government that is
phenomenally unpopular, looks very
likely to lose the next election, is
desperately in need of money, new ideas,
and yet despite this like very long-term
track record of quite consistent
failure, this really powerful demand for
new ideas from the public, economists
and politicians have still been really
really stubbornly ignoring and unwilling
to talk to people like me. And it's not
just me. We have other people like
Thomas Petti, uh, Thomas Gabriel Zukman
in France saying similar things and
meeting really strong push back even
from politicians who are supposed to be
on the left who you might imagine would
be more open to ideas like taxing very
rich people, reducing inequality. So why
is it that economists and politicians
have been so stubborn in ignoring these
ideas about inequality in spite of the
massive popular demand? Now, this to be
honest is is something which I'm not
100% certain on and it's something which
I think about a lot because obviously
we're at a point now on this channel
where we've had a huge amount of cut
through with the public and what we are
kind of coming up against is we're
hitting this wall of politicians and and
academics and kind of this intellectual
middle class who are refusing to accept
it. And if we want to actually get this
into power, we do need to try to
understand why these guys are so
unwilling to listen to us, so unwilling
to work with us. So, I've been thinking
about this a lot, speaking to a few
different people. Um, and we're trying
to understand what it is. And I've got a
list of ideas here which might be what
is stopping them from listening to us.
And I'll go through them and and you can
let me know if you think any of these
are right, if you think any of these are
wrong. Um, if you think there's anything
I'm missing, put it in the comments. But
I'll go through the list of ideas I've
got here. So number one is I've got here
the far-left theory and this is that me
and my ideas have kind of been branded
in the eyes of the political class of
politicians maybe in the media as far
left and a lot of politicians don't like
the far left and they they are unwilling
to counterence anything that is branded
as far left. This is very frustrating
for me because I I don't come from a
political background. Um, I don't come
from the far left. My background is I
studied economics at LSE. I was very
successful. I got very good grades. I
went on to become a trader. I was very
successful. I made a lot of very good
predictions. I went to Oxford to do a
two-year masters. Again, I did very well
classically trained economist. And then
I've been out here speaking publicly
making very good predictions as well.
Like for me, I have never tried to be
far left. I don't come from a political
background. I have a very very good
track record of of being right and um
this is the kind of thing which gets you
a long way in the financial world.
People will will look a lot at what your
track record of predictions is like. If
you don't believe my track record of
predictions, go and watch the video from
first ever video from this channel June
2020. You'll see how good the
predictions were just at the beginning.
But it does seem like this might be one
of the reasons why um Labour not
listening to us that they think we're
far left. we need to think about how can
we try to rid ourselves of that brand.
Um, honestly, you know, I don't I'm an
economist. I don't think of economics as
as left or right. You know, when I look
at the economy, when I I first started
making these bets in 2011 as a trader
because I was heavily financially
incentivized to bet on what's right, um,
I've been betting on these things since
the beginning of COVID. I've made a huge
amount of money. I don't say these
things because I have some political
motive. I say these things because I
have a very good track record of
accurate predictions. Um my current
forecasts are for a collapse in living
standards. I don't want living standards
to collapse even further. But
unfortunately this this branding as far
left is perhaps one of the things which
is perhaps stopping us. Uh I've got here
the Zack Palansky theory. I went on a
podcast with Zack Palansky, the new
leader of the Greens. I asked him why
why is there so much resistance? And he
just basically said like they're all
bought because this is it. Like they're
all bought. They're paid for by the
rich. Um their donors are very very
rich. they go and work for for rich
people which some people might say is
quite conspiratorial and quite negative.
Um but I think there might be some
element of this involved. Um you know
when we were looking at the Conservative
party we had Rishi Sunnak who was
phenomenally wealthy. We had David
Cameron who went on to make a huge
amount of money after leaving office. Um
before that Tony Blair made a huge
amount of money after leaving office.
Um, I don't know what Kiss Armor's plans
are, but it does seem that that part of
the problem may simply be the political
class, especially at the top level, is
people who are very rich or are about to
become very rich and are often funded by
the very rich. That could be an element
that could be an element to it. Um, if
that happens, that that will be tricky.
Um, we have to think about how we can
work around it. Okay, I've got here the
class theory. This is the theory that
basically the kind of intellectual class
I wanted to Thomas Petti the French
inequality economist calls him the
Brahmin class. So he uses this term the
Brahmin class which refers to the
Brahminss were the top cast in the
Indian cast system and they're basically
priests and uses this term to talk about
this kind of this kind of group of
intellectuals who high level economists
high level academics high level
journalists high level politics media
high level perhaps business who sort of
determine what the public think and
control of the media. I I've had this
theory for a while. When I first started
this channel, it was I didn't know at
the time it would become as big as it
has done. But a big part of it was I
felt that there wasn't really any sort
of economic news source that felt just
accessible or understandable to ordinary
people. And I was writing for the
Guardian at the time. And I really
thought because I come from a
working-class background and I look and
I sound workingass, I thought ordinary
people would appreciate having somebody
from an ordinary background talking to
them about economics in a way that they
could understand. And that was a big
part of the idea of this channel. And
that means that really ever since the
beginning, I've always been trying to
talk to the public rather than trying to
talk to the politicians.
And I'm obviously English and this is a
country which has had a long history of
of a class system. And I I do think
there is a problem that when especially
more middle- class people see or hear
somebody from a working-class
background, they perhaps make
assumptions that this guy is maybe not
smart or maybe not honest. And I do
think that that sometimes is one of the
reasons why I'm not taken that seriously
by these senior politicians. Again, it's
very very frustrating because, you know,
I was a very successful, very well- paid
trader and I was taken very seriously in
that space. Um, and it's very
frustrating to to not be taken seriously
by people who who would very probably
very happily give me their money to
manage. Um, I think a great example of
this is when I went on the rest is
politics, which is for those who are not
in the UK, the most popular politics
podcast here in the UK. um has a couple
of presenters, one of whom is from a a
very posh, you might even say
aristocratic background. Um, and I made
this case to him that I felt like one of
the reasons why I'm not taken seriously
by politicians is because I'm from a
working-class background and because of
how I talk and because of how I sound.
And he replied, you know, I don't think
that's right. You shouldn't patronize
politicians. I I think it's because of
your class anger, which is um it's a
wonderful thing to say really because
it's what he's saying is it's because of
my class and the way that I speak, which
is which is exactly what what I said in
a way. So I put the case to him that
posh people don't take me seriously
because of my class and how I speak. And
he said, "No, it's not that. It's
because of your class and how you
speak." I do think this is a problem. I
think the the way that we get around
this is really I need yourselves and
people like you to try as much as you
can to infiltrate those elite spaces.
So, so get yourselves and your kids into
fancy universities, fancy jobs, media,
politics, academia, banks, finance,
civil service, central banking, um and
get those ideas that way. I would never
tell anyone to change the way you speak.
Um but we do need posh people with posh
voices. I think we be taken seriously.
The next one I've got here is the Gary
is a dick theory. And this is basically
the fact that like from the beginning,
so I've made all all my money basically
by betting on the fact that economists
are wrong. Um, and my whole career
history since 2011 is aggressively
betting on the fact that economists are
wrong. Um, and I do believe I say it all
the time that I think we have a problem
in economics where economists are just
failing to recognize this very very
serious problem of growing wealth
inequality. Um, and because of this, you
know, sometimes I the way I speak about
economists or politicians or econom
economists in politics is perhaps a bit
disrespectful. Um last week's video on
on whether Labour are um unlucky or not
was actually originally scheduled to be
called why are labor so and um this
I think kind of typifies I think a
problem that I have which is I'm very
very frustrated with this political and
economic class um and I spoke with Oscar
who is the manager of this channel um
and he sort of talked to me off the
cliff edge and said listen if you want
labor and labor politicians to listen to
you you can't be saying labor a And
um the truth is the history of this
channel has been quite a lot of me
sometimes in somewhat flamboyant ways
saying that I think economists and
politicians are a bit dumb and that
perhaps worked very well in making this
channel very popular but it's maybe not
the best way to get labor to to to
listen to you. Um, and I've got here
attached to this is that Gary is a
classist, which relates to the previous
issue that people don't like that the
middle class, the sort of intellectual
class don't listen to me because I'm a
working-class background. I think I do
have to accept that to a degree I am
frustrated and a little bit angry with
this sort of upper middle class
intellectual class that are allowing the
economy to fall off a cliff while in
many cases they themselves get richer.
Um, this is probably best typified by a
video I did really, really early on
called Elite idiots, saying the economy
is being ruined by rich idiots. Um, the
fact is the way that I communicate, the
way that I talk about economists and the
way that I talk about politicians is
perhaps a bit rude and that has probably
pissed them off. Um, and we need to
think about that because um, yeah, we do
need to figure out ways to speak to
these guys. The last one I've got, which
is about me personally, is the Gary
style of approach theory, which is that
basically they don't respect me because
I'm coming up through YouTube and they
need you to be coming up, you know, the
sort of acceptable way. You go and you
get your PhD and you work your way
through. Um, just to be clear, I did go
and do a 2-year masters at Oxford before
I started doing this and it was just so
bad. The the quality of education was
just unbelievably
bad. I felt guilty for having paid for
such a poor education. And I could also
see, you know, the economy is going to
get worse quickly. And I didn't think I
wanted to do another six, seven years
wasting my time getting locked in
libraries. But this is the truth, right?
You know, I think the way that I've come
through through YouTube, through
trading, um, being a bit rude about posh
people was never going to endear me to
posh people. So, we do need other people
to go in, push these theories, push this
understanding, not using my face, not
using my name. It helps if you got a
posh voice. Just don't talk about me.
Take the ideas. Take the ideas and run
with them.
But you know, criticisms of these last
one. All these ideas are sort of based
on Gary specifically is doing it wrong.
The thing is we've got another guy.
There's a guy called Gabriel Zukman,
French economist who is doing great work
pushing for wealth taxes in France and
he's come at it a very different way.
Very academic. Got his PhD, very
prestigious academic, you know, didn't
go through trading, didn't go through
YouTube, went direct to the politicians
and he's doing really, really good job
and we hope he gets it. But he is also
getting push back. Um, and if the
problem was just specifically me, then
you would imagine that other people in
other countries would be doing a better
job of wealth taxes. So, I'm not really
sure whether these ideas that focus very
much on me are the real answer. Uh, I've
got a couple more ideas here. One is the
small C conservatism theory which is
basically just that because this Brahmin
class this intellectual class is largely
richer people from richer backgrounds
getting paid quite well they are just
very comfortable with the status quo and
they don't want things to change um they
don't like ideas about taxation because
they see themselves as rich they don't
want to pay higher taxes uh next is the
big picture thinkers are all in
different jobs theory which is basically
what I said before which is if you are
the kind of person that wants to
challenge the status quo, think
strategically, you are going to get
rewarded much better generally in
business or in finance or in trading
than you will do in places like
politics. You do see a few well the most
obvious counter example of that is
Dominick Cummings who was a kind of very
radical guy who became very senior in
government here before being publicly
defenistrated uh which means thrown out
of the window not literally. And the
last one here is the social mobility
theory which is basically that you know
I think back in the day this country
with young kids like me it would often
like very smart young kids from poor
backgrounds would send them to grammar
school and then would bring them into
places like the civil service or liking
government and you did have a situation
where a lot of the smartest young kids
ended up in some sense or another
running the country. Great example this
is John Major who was the prime minister
in the early '9s who I believe came from
a very working-class family. I think his
dad was a clown or something. He was in
something like that. Worked in the
circus, I think. But what I went to a
grammar school and ended up running the
country and I think if you look at
countries like China or like Singapore,
they do still make sure that a lot of
the smartest kids in their country or
you know the kids that do best in exams
end up working in government, end up
running the country. So what you see is
in the UK in the past and in countries
like China and Singapore now they make
sure that the best people or at least
some of them end up in government. uh
whereas now having been to sort of some
of the best universities in the country,
I can tell you the truth is not many of
the smartest kids aspire especially from
poor backgrounds um aspire for work to
work in government um just simply
because it is really really not a
financially competitive job with things
like finance with things like tech. And
what that has led to I think is really
just basically not a lot of great people
in government really and and which I
think is is connected to the collapse of
the country. But of course I have to be
careful about saying things like that
because as we've established me loudly
saying that I think politicians are not
very competent is probably not the best
way to win them over. So um maybe forget
that one. So I'm I'm fascinated to
understand why it is. Um I'm going to go
on a bit of a break here. I'm going to
really try to think about why. Uh if you
have ideas let me know. But I think the
theory which I think I think is most
likely to be true in my opinion is this
last one which is called the bubble
theory. And this is just that basically
as the economy has become more divided.
We have really divided the lives of
richer people you know the sort of
middle class upper middle class from the
poor. Um, and now we have this situation
where most elite jobs, including
politics, have a a very high over
representation of people from richer
families, from private schools, from
this kind of elite upper middle- class
space. There are still some
working-class people in politics, but
they're less likely to be at the top and
they are a minority in that group, which
means the overall culture of the space,
elite level, politics, media, banking,
academia, all of these spaces are very,
very middle class. And what it means is
you end up in a bit of a bubble where
most of the people in this space went to
elite schools, come from wealthy
families, went to elite universities,
end up in elite well-p paid jobs, and
simply do not have a good understanding
of or connection to life for ordinary
people. And I see this so often when I
interact with people from richer
backgrounds and try to tell them what's
happening. this real unwillingness to
even accept that life is getting worse
for ordinary people. Um, you see this
all over the media when when I went on
restless politics. You had you had Rory
Stewart saying, you know, I think I
think life is getting better in America.
And then when I went on LBC the other
week, you had Tom Swarbrook saying, "Oh,
but things are okay in Australia." Or we
saw so much in the US press the last few
years, this idea that the vibes are off,
which is actually life is getting better
and and it's the working class just
don't understand their own situation. Or
there was the the fantastic piece by was
it John B Murdoch? Is that his name?
John B Murdoch the Financial Times
journalist saying life is unambiguously
getting better for the poor. I I think
we have this problem now as inequality
is increasing and as social mobility is
decreasing that when you go into elite
spaces like politics, they are really
just full of wealthy people who because
we exist in a crisis of inequality where
life is actually getting better for
richer people. They simply cannot see or
understand that life is getting worse
for ordinary people. And I think
probably this is the biggest problem we
have the bubble theory that the people
who are in charge of power are stuck in
this bubble. Okay. So what do we do? How
do we win them over even though they're
stuck in this bubble? Well, actually in
a bizarre way, we have a great
opportunity here because these guys that
have been stuck in this bubble have been
willing and able to ignore us for a long
time. But the reckoning is kind of
coming for them because unless they
start taking these ideas seriously, they
will continue to fail on the economy and
they will lose to the far right. And I
think a lot of these people, this
intellectual class, really do not want
the far right to win. So we do have a
really good opportunity here to really
keep banging the drum, really make sure
these people know if you don't move
seriously on inequality and the economy,
you will lose to the far right. I think
that that is a really good me message to
have because that intellectual class
specifically, that Brahmin class, I
think a lot of them don't like the far
right. So, we have a good opportunity
here. But I have to be honest, I'm going
to do everything I can to win the next
Labor leader. I think we will get a new
Labour leader next year. I think
probably we won't win them. If we don't,
then that leader will fail on the
economy and reform and Farage will win
the next election and they will fail on
the economy for the exact same reason.
So, you know, I know this is not the
best case scenario because that would
then mean 9 years of no wealth taxes
because I don't think we'll get anything
from reform, but it will only strengthen
our case. Yes, that might be a bit
depressing, the idea that that if we
don't get the next leader, we can't stop
reform from winning and then it's 9
years of no wealth tax. Um, but don't
lose hope entirely. I think there's a
good chance that if reform win in four
years, it could be a very small
majority. Um it could be even a hung
parliament so a minority government uh
that I think they will also become very
unpopular very unquily because it will
be seen that they're going to fail on
the economy and there is a good chance
that that government will fall quickly
um and it will strengthen our case even
further. One thing I can tell you with
absolute certainty is every single
government you see in this country or
wherever you are for the next 20 years
will do either one of two things. either
they will give us something serious on
inequality and taxation or they will
fail on the economy and living
standards. So basically we can only get
stronger until we win. So that's it.
Basically we need to keep banging the
drum again and again. We need to do
everything we can do to dradicalize this
brand to deleftize this brand. Make it
clear that this is not about left or
right. This is about do you want the
economy to fail or not. Um, as much as
we can, we need to separate the brand
from me as a person, which means I need
you guys to run with these ideas
yourselves. I need you guys to use these
ideas in your everyday lives, with your
communities, in your job if you can. But
look, I know the situation looks bad,
but we are actually in a very strong
position because whoever wins, either
they give us what we want or they fail
on the economy. And every time another
idea fails, we will move closer and
closer to being the idea that takes
power next. Uh, and e even if reform do
win here and it's nine years with no
wealth taxes, um, we're not the only
country in the world. This same thing is
happening everywhere. You know, I got
um, Chloe Swick on from New Zealand.
Really, largely cuz I wanted to show
you, especially to our British viewers,
this is happening everywhere. I think a
lot of people think, oh, things are fine
in in Australia or in in Sweden. I was
in Sweden earlier this year. Same
thing's happening there. Same thing's
happening across Europe. Same thing's
happening in Japan, which is currently
done over very well. um this movement
and one of the reasons why I've been
traveling around the world is I'm trying
to plant this seed everywhere because if
it doesn't work here, you know, it could
work in another country. There's great
work being done by Gabriel Zukman in
France. We just need one country to
manage it, get a wealth tax seriously
and show it can increase living
standards and then we have a much better
chance of getting it here or wherever
you are. Okay. So, I'll keep doing it,
you keep doing it. Uh I want to answer
the the opening question of this uh
video which is is labor savable? Um and
the honest answer is um I don't know. I
don't know. I hope that it is. If we
don't win Labor over, if we don't get
the next leader, then Labor will lose
the election. Um Farage and Reform will
win the election. Living standards will
fall. Um and we probably won't get uh
anything for 9 years on wealth taxes
here. That will be serious. Poverty will
get worse. Um politics can get worse.
But look, things will change. Um I think
Labour will get a new leader next year.
I know we haven't had much from Labor in
the last few months and it's
disappointed me as much as it's
disappointed you, trust me. But, you
know, Labour have a lot of very new MPs
that have only been there one year.
They're not very powerful. They're
finding their feet. Um, I think next
year they will there'll probably be a
push to to push out Stalmer and a new
man or woman will come in. Um, and I
think a lot of these new MPs will will
start trying to find their feet and and
establish themselves more seriously. Um,
you know, we did a call out to Labour
MPs a few months ago and we did get a
lot back. We got, you know, we got, I
think, more than 10 MPs have asked for
meetings or we've given them meetings
and we're trying to meet with all of
them as well as some Liberal Democrat
MPs. Look, there are people in there and
we're going to try the best we can to
work with them. Um, they're not all
They're not all idiots. I've
had some good meetings with some good
people and I'm going to try my best to
build on it. Um, and I know there'll be
people out there saying, you know,
forget Labour, they're rubbish. Work
with Zack Lansky, work with the Greens.
I'm talking to Zack. I'm talking to the
Greens. We're not ruling anybody out.
This is not football. This is serious.
Things get really bad if we don't do it.
Um, so I'm going to try my best to build
something with Labor and I want to do a
message to Labor MPs because I know I've
spoken in ways that are perhaps a little
bit disrespectful sometimes. Um, and I'm
sorry if I've done that. Um, I'm
frustrated. You know, I I see living
standards falling in this country, in my
country. I come from a a poor
background. I know what what it's like
growing up poor. Um, and and I don't
want that to grow. I don't want that to
grow. Um, and I've been betting on these
things for 14 years. I've been making a
lot of money on them. I don't want them
to get worse. Um, and I'm frustrated at
the lack of support I've been getting
from Labor. But, um, I keep turning up.
I keep doing these videos because I want
to make things better. And, um, you
guys, you're in there. You're in the
seat of power. Your job is supposed to
be to protect the British people. You're
unpopular. You need money. I'm here to
help. I'm here to help. And, and I don't
I don't mean to say that in a
disrespectful way. We will always be
open to speaking to Labour MPs as long
as the situation is as it is, which is
we need you to help us stop this country
from collapsing. I don't want the
country to collapse. We don't want the
country to collapse. Let's try and fix
this together. But you need to be
open-minded about the economy. You need
to be open-minded about the idea that
there might be big economic problems
that need fixing. You need to be
open-minded about the idea that it might
not be just about looking at next year's
budget and next year's budget. You need
to be willing to consider the idea that
there might be a big problem of large
scale wealth inequality. You need to be
able to consider that distribution might
matter, that wealth inequality might
matter, that government wealthing might
matter. And I know if you're economist,
these ideas might be like outside of
what you what you were taught and
outside of what you studied. Um, and and
that might be like scary, but look at
what's happening. I know if you're from
a rich background, you might not see it,
but I encourage you to go and and speak
to people and get into people's lives
and and look at what is happening to
poverty and look at how much harder it
is becoming for people to buy a home.
Um, you know, I know big new ideas are
scary, especially if you've got like a
background in economics. And I know you
might think that I'm just some
workingclass chancer or some kind of
idiot, but look, I've got the
qualifications. I've been to LSE. I've
been to Oxford. I did very well. I've
got a very very good track record of
predicting as a trader in the public.
You can look at my predictions from
2020. They were very very good. Work
with me here. Work with me. We need to
do something. Um if we don't take action
on growing inequality, I absolutely
guarantee you that living standards and
poverty will get worse and worse and
worse and worse in this country. And I
don't say that lightly. I don't take
that lightly. I'm not just saying it.
I'm betting on it. I've been betting on
it for a long, long time. I've made a
lot of money betting in it, but I'm
trying to stop it. If you do not do
anything about growing inequality,
poverty in this country will get worse
and worse and worse, and it will be your
fault.
Okay, so that's it, right? I'm here. I
want to work with Labor. I'm sorry if
I've been disrespectful in the past. You
know, I I speak with my heart sometimes.
I'm worried about the future of this
country. I know I need the political
parties to help me. I will be here to
speak to you when you guys want to work
with us. people out there who say I
should forget Labour and I should work
with the Greens. I'll be here. You know,
I'll be speaking to the Greens. I am
speaking to the Greens. I am speaking to
Zack Balansky. I don't rule anybody out.
You know, politics is not football. This
is serious. This is your life. This is
your kids, your grandkids. Can they buy
a house? Can they afford a family? This
is too serious to say, I only like this
guy. I only like that guy. I will work
with whoever I need to work with to make
this happen. But look, if we don't win
Labor and reform come in, we keep
fighting. We don't give up. It's a
marathon, not a sprint. Uh, and I want
to finish this on um a quote which I've
used before on this channel, but since
it is a quote from a somewhat legendary
Labour MP, I thought I would use it
again as an olive branch to the Labour
Party who um I've said a million times
I'm willing to work with to make this
country better, which is uh Tony Ben's
quote that there is no final victory and
no final defeat, only the same battle to
be fought again and again and again. So,
toughen up. Bloody toughen up. I think
that's how it goes. Uh, look, thank you
very much uh for your support. I know
it's a tough time, but we keep fighting.
I'll keep fighting if you do. Good luck.
Thanks for all that work. Thank you.